doc: Add side input docs (#1029)
numaproj/numaflow: docs/user-guide/reference/sideinputs.md

# Side Inputs

> `Side inputs` in a data processing pipeline are useful for enriching original
> data or providing additional context to the pipeline.
> 
> This allows accesses to slow updated data or configuration without needing
> to retrieve it during each message processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an unbounded pipeline in Numaflow that never terminates, there are many cases where users want to update a configuration of the UDF without restarting the pipeline. `Side input` allows this key feature in Numaflow where we can broadcast changes to vertices.

`Side input` achieves this by allowing users to write custom UDFs to broadcast changes to the vertices that are listening in for updates.
```

### Using Side Inputs in Numaflow

> The Side Inputs are updated based on a cron-like schedule, 
> specified in the pipeline spec with a trigger field.
> Multiple side inputs are supported as well. 
> Below is an example of pipeline spec with side inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Side Inputs are updated based on a cron-like schedule, 
specified in the pipeline spec with a trigger field.
Multiple side inputs are supported as well. 

Below is an example of pipeline spec with side inputs, which runs the custom UDFs every 15 mins and broadcasts the changes if there is any change to be broadcasted.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: numaflow.numaproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Pipeline
metadata:
  name: my-pipeline
spec:
  sideInputs:
    - name: s3
      container:
        image: my-sideinputs-s3-image:v1
      trigger:
        schedule: "*/15 * * * *"
        # timezone: America/Los_Angeles
    - name: redis
      container:
        image: my-sideinputs-redis-image:v1
      trigger:
        schedule: "*/15 * * * *"
        # timezone: America/Los_Angeles
  vertices:
    - name: my-vertex
      sideInputs:
        - s3
    - name: my-vertex-multiple-side-inputs
      sideInputs:
        - s3
        - redis
```

### Implementing User Defined Side Inputs

> To use Side Inputs feature, a User Defined function implementing an interface defined in the  Numaflow SDK
> ([Go](https://github.com/numaproj/numaflow-go/blob/main/pkg/sideinput/), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Side Input feature, a User-defined function implementing an interface defined in the  Numaflow SDK
([Go](https://github.com/numaproj/numaflow-go/blob/main/pkg/sideinput/), 
```

[Python](https://github.com/numaproj/numaflow-python/blob/main/pynumaflow/sideinput/), 
[Java](https://github.com/numaproj/numaflow-java/tree/main/src/main/java/io/numaproj/numaflow/sideinput)) 
is needed to retrieve the data.

You can choose the SDK of your choice to create a
User Defined Side Input image which implements the
Side Inputs Update.

> Here is an example of how to write a User Defined Side Input in Go:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example in Golang
Here is an example of how to write a User Defined Side Input in Golang,
```

> ```go
> // handle is the side input handler function.
> func handle(_ context.Context) sideinputsdk.Message {
>     t := time.Now()
>     // val is the side input message value. This would be the value that the side input vertex receives.
>     val := "an example: " + string(t.String())
>     // randomly drop side input message. Note that the side input message is not retried.
>     // NoBroadcastMessage() is used to drop the message and not to
>     // broadcast it to other side input vertices.
>     counter = (counter + 1) % 10
>     if counter%2 == 0 {
>     return sideinputsdk.NoBroadcastMessage()
>     }
>     // BroadcastMessage() is used to broadcast the message with the given value to other side input vertices.
>     // val must be converted to []byte.
>     return sideinputsdk.BroadcastMessage([]byte(val))
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```go
// handle is the side input handler function.
func handle(_ context.Context) sideinputsdk.Message {
    t := time.Now()
    // val is the side input message value. This would be the value that the side input vertex receives.
    val := "an example: " + string(t.String())
    // randomly drop side input message. Note that the side input message is not retried.
    // NoBroadcastMessage() is used to drop the message and not to
    // broadcast it to other side input vertices.
    counter = (counter + 1) % 10
    if counter%2 == 0 {
        return sideinputsdk.NoBroadcastMessage()
    }
    // BroadcastMessage() is used to broadcast the message with the given value to other side input vertices.
    // val must be converted to []byte.
    return sideinputsdk.BroadcastMessage([]byte(val))
}
```

and [Java](https://github.com/numaproj/numaflow-java/blob/main/examples/src/main/java/io/numaproj/numaflow/examples/sideinput/simple/SimpleSideInput.java) as well.

After performing the retrieval/update, the side input value is then broadcasted to all vertices that use the side input.

```golang
// BroadcastMessage() is used to broadcast the message with the given value.
sideinputsdk.BroadcastMessage([]byte(val))
```

In some cased the user may want to drop the message and not to broadcast the side input value further.
```go
// NoBroadcastMessage() is used to drop the message and not to broadcast it further
sideinputsdk.NoBroadcastMessage()
```

### UDF
Users need to add a watcher on the filesystem to fetch the 
updated side inputs in their User Defined Source/Function/Sink 
in order to apply the new changes into the data process.

For each side input there will be a file with the given path and after any update to the side input value the file will be updated.

The directory is fixed and can be accessed through a sideinput constant and the file name is the name of the side input.

> 

Reviewer: Can you please point to examples of how to watch in each language?

The `Side Inputs` feature achieves this by allowing users to write custom UDFs to broadcast changes to the vertices that are listening in for updates.

### Using Side Inputs in Numaflow
The Side Inputs are updated based on a cron-like schedule, 
specified in the pipeline spec with a trigger field.
Multiple side inputs are supported as well. 

Below is an example of pipeline spec with side inputs, which runs the custom UDFs every 15 mins and broadcasts the changes if there is any change to be broadcasted.

```yaml
apiVersion: numaflow.numaproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Pipeline
metadata:
  name: my-pipeline
spec:
  sideInputs:
    - name: s3
      container:
        image: my-sideinputs-s3-image:v1
      trigger:
        schedule: "*/15 * * * *"
        # timezone: America/Los_Angeles
    - name: redis
      container:
        image: my-sideinputs-redis-image:v1
      trigger:
        schedule: "*/15 * * * *"
        # timezone: America/Los_Angeles
  vertices:
    - name: my-vertex
      sideInputs:
        - s3
    - name: my-vertex-multiple-side-inputs
      sideInputs:
        - s3
        - redis
```

### Implementing User Defined Side Inputs

> To use the `Side Inputs` feature, a User-defined function implementing an interface defined in the  Numaflow SDK

Reviewer 2: Remove the extra space between `the` and `Numaflow`.

# Side Inputs

> For an unbounded pipeline in Numaflow that never terminates, there are many cases where users want to update a configuration of the UDF without restarting the pipeline. `Side input` allows this key feature in Numaflow where we can broadcast changes to vertices.

Reviewer 2: Use `Side Inputs` here.

> For an unbounded pipeline in Numaflow that never terminates, there are many cases where users want to update a configuration of the UDF without restarting the pipeline. `Side input` allows this key feature in Numaflow where we can broadcast changes to vertices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For an unbounded pipeline in Numaflow that never terminates, there are many cases where users want to update a configuration of the UDF without restarting the pipeline. Numaflow enables it by the `Side Inputs` feature where we can broadcast changes to vertices automatically.
```

> `Side input` achieves this by allowing users to write custom UDFs to broadcast changes to the vertices that are listening in for updates.

Reviewer 2: `Side Inputs` feature.

> `Side input` achieves this by allowing users to write custom UDFs to broadcast changes to the vertices that are listening in for updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Side Inputs` feature achieves this by allowing users to write custom UDFs to broadcast changes to the vertices that are listening in for updates.
```

### Using Side Inputs in Numaflow
The Side Inputs are updated based on a cron-like schedule, 
specified in the pipeline spec with a trigger field.
Multiple side inputs are supported as well. 

Below is an example of pipeline spec with side inputs, which runs the custom UDFs every 15 mins and broadcasts the changes if there is any change to be broadcasted.

```yaml
apiVersion: numaflow.numaproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Pipeline
metadata:
  name: my-pipeline
spec:
  sideInputs:
    - name: s3
      container:
        image: my-sideinputs-s3-image:v1
      trigger:
        schedule: "*/15 * * * *"
        # timezone: America/Los_Angeles
    - name: redis
      container:
        image: my-sideinputs-redis-image:v1
      trigger:
        schedule: "*/15 * * * *"
        # timezone: America/Los_Angeles
  vertices:
    - name: my-vertex
      sideInputs:
        - s3
    - name: my-vertex-multiple-side-inputs
      sideInputs:
        - s3
        - redis
```

### Implementing User Defined Side Inputs

> To use the Side Input feature, a User-defined function implementing an interface defined in the  Numaflow SDK

Reviewer 2: Side Inputs

> To use the Side Input feature, a User-defined function implementing an interface defined in the  Numaflow SDK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the `Side Inputs` feature, a User-defined function implementing an interface defined in the Numaflow SDK
```
